[Doc Feature][Integrate people picker] [2062422] (#5436)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/concepts/device-capabilities/people-picker-capability.md

---
title: People Picker capability
description: How to use Teams JavaScript client SDK to integrate People Picker control
keywords:  people picker control
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# People Picker capability

People Picker is a native capability and control in Teams that allows user to search and select people. Teams app developers can integrate the People Picker input control in their web app, which allows end users to perform different functions. These functions can be to search and select people within a chat, a channel, or across the organization. The People Picker capability is available across all Teams clients - web, desktop, and mobile.

You can use [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true), which provides `selectPeople` API to integrate People Picker within your web app.

## Advantages of using People Picker

> * People Picker control works on all Teams platforms, such as task module, a chat, a channel, meeting tab, and personal app.

Reviewer: Use of the term "platform" might not be correct, sharing suggestion below:
```suggestion
* People Picker control works on all of the Teams extensibility points, such as task module, a chat, a channel, meeting tab, and personal app.
```

* The control allows the user to search and select user in a chat, channel, or the entire organization.
* People Picker helps in scenarios involving task assignment, tagging, and notifying the user.

> * The control saves the effort and time significantly to build a similar control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It saves significant effort and time otherwise needed to build a similar control.
```

> To integrate People Picker control in your Teams app select the API, `selectPeople`. To integrate and call the API, you must know about [code snippet](#code-snippet). You also need familiarity with [API response errors](#error-handling) to handle any errors in the web app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To integrate People Picker control in your Teams app select the API, `selectPeople`. To integrate and call the API, you must have a good understand of accompanying [code snippet](#code-snippet). You also need familiarity with [API response errors](#error-handling) to handle any errors in the web app.
```

---
title: Integrate People Picker 
description: How to use Teams JavaScript client SDK to integrate People Picker control
keywords:  people picker control
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# Integrate People Picker

People Picker is a native capability and control in Teams, which allows user to search and select people. Teams integrates native People Picker input control on both web and desktop apps. User can perform different functions like searching within a chat, a channel, or across the organization by selecting single or multiple configurations of the control.

<!-- The control can be selected for single or multiple configurations, such as limiting search within a chat, channel, or across the entire organization. -->

> You can use [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true), which provides `selectPeople` API to integrate People Picker within your mobile and desktop app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true), which provides `selectPeople` API to integrate People Picker within your web app.
```

## Advantages of integrating People Picker

* People Picker control works on all Teams platforms, such as task module, a chat, channel, meeting tab, and personal app.
* The control allows the user to search and select user in a chat, channel, or the entire organization.
* People Picker helps with scenarios involving task assignment, tagging and notifying a user.

> * The control can be used in both web and desktop, as it saves the effort and time significantly to build a similar control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The control saves the effort and time significantly to build a similar control.
```

To integrate People Picker control in your Teams app select the API, `selectPeople`. To integrate and call the API, user must know about [code snippet](#code-snippet). User also needs familiarity with [API response errors](#error-handling) to handle any errors in web and desktop app.

## `selectPeople` API

The `selectPeople` API enables users to add Teams native `People Picker input control` to web and desktop apps. The following table provides description of the API:

| API | Description  |
| --- | --- |

> |`selectPeople`| • Launches People Picker and allows the user to search and select one or more people from the list.<br/>  • This API returns the ID, name and email address of selected users to the web or desktop app.<br/> • In case of a personal app, the control searches across the organization. If the app is added to a chat or channel, then the search context is configured depending on the scenario. The search is restricted within the members of that chat, channel, or made available across the organization.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`selectPeople`| • Launches People Picker and allows the user to search and select one or more people from the list.<br/>  • This API returns the ID, name and email address of selected users to the web app.<br/> • In case of a personal app, the control searches across the organization. If the app is added to a chat or channel, then the search context is configured depending on the scenario. The search is restricted within the members of that chat, channel, or made available across the organization.|
```

The `selectPeople` API comes with the following input configurations:

|Configuration parameter|Type|Description| Default value|
|-----|------|--------------|------|
|`title`|String| It is an optional parameter and sets the title for the People Picker control.|Select people|
|`setSelected`|String| It is an optional parameter. You must pass Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) IDs of the people to be preselected. This parameter preselects people while launching the People Picker control. In case of a single selection, only the first valid user is pre-populated ignoring the rest.|Null|
|`openOrgWideSearchInChatOrChannel`|Boolean| It's an optional parameter and when set to true, it launches the People Picker in organization wide scope even if the app is added to a chat or channel.|False|
|`singleSelect`|Boolean|It is an optional parameter. When set to true it launches the People Picker and restricts the selection to only one user.|False|

> The following image shows the experience of People Picker using mobile and desktop:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image shows the experience of People Picker on mobile and desktop:
```

> # [Mobile app](#tab/Samplemobileapp)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [Mobile](#tab/Samplemobileapp)
```

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/people-picker-control-capability.png" alt-text="People picker control capability mobile":::

> # [Desktop app](#tab/Sampledesktop)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# [Desktop](#tab/Sampledesktop)
```

> The desktop app allows you to do a search based on the following:
> 
> * Search using name
> * Search using email address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The People Picker control on web or desktop is launched in a modal window on top of your web app.

```

---

> title: People Picker capability

Author: Title renamed as Integrate People Picker.

description: How to use Teams JavaScript client SDK to integrate People Picker control
keywords:  people picker control
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.author: surbhigupta
---

# People Picker

> People Picker is a control in Teams that allows users to search and select people. You can integrate People Picker input control in web app, which allows end users to perform different functions. These functions allows user to search and select people within a chat, a channel, or across the organization. The People Picker control is available across all Teams clients web, desktop, and mobile.

Author: Comment incorporated.

You can use [Microsoft Teams JavaScript client SDK](/javascript/api/overview/msteams-client?view=msteams-client-js-latest&preserve-view=true), which provides `selectPeople` API to integrate People Picker within your web app.

## Advantages of using People Picker

> * Works on all of Teams extensibility points, such as task module, a chat, a channel, meeting tab, and personal app.

Author: Changed to capabilities.

* Allows the user to search and select user in a chat, channel, or the entire organization.
* Helps in scenarios involving task assignment, tagging, and notifying the user.
* Saves significant time and effort otherwise needed to build a similar control.

To integrate People Picker control in your Teams app select the API, [`selectPeople`](#selectpeople-api). To integrate and call the API, you must have a good understanding of accompanying [code snippet](#code-snippet). You also need familiarity with [API response errors](#error-handling) to handle any errors in the web app.

## `selectPeople` API

The `selectPeople` API enables you to add Teams People Picker input control to the web apps. The following table provides description of the API:

| API | Description  |
| --- | --- |

> |`selectPeople`| • Launches People Picker, allows the user to search and select one or more people from the list.<br/>  • The API returns ID, name, and email address of selected users to the web app.<br/> • In case of a personal app, the control searches across the organization. If the app is added to a chat or channel, then the search context is configured based on the scenario. The search is restricted within the members of that chat, channel, or made available across the organization.|

Author: Removed Table format and used unordered list.

The `selectPeople` API comes with the following input configurations:

|Configuration parameter|Type|Description| Default value|
|-----|------|--------------|------|
|`title`|String| It's an optional parameter and sets the title for the People Picker control.|`selectpeople`|
|`setSelected`|String| It's an optional parameter. You must pass Microsoft Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) IDs of the people to be preselected. This parameter preselects people while launching the People Picker control. In case of a single selection, only the first valid user is pre-populated ignoring the rest.|Null|
|`openOrgWideSearchInChatOrChannel`|Boolean| It's an optional parameter and when set to true, it launches the People Picker in organization wide scope even if the app is added to a chat or channel.|False|
|`singleSelect`|Boolean|It's an optional parameter. When set to true it launches the People Picker and restricts the selection to only one user.|False|

The following image displays the experience of People Picker on mobile and desktop:

# [Mobile](#tab/Samplemobileapp)

> * To add a user as an approver in an app, select the required field and the People Picker control opens in a separate view.

Author: Updated content to used numbered list.

* User selects the approver based on name specified.
* The suggested list is shared back with the app.

:::image type="content" source="../../assets/images/tabs/people-picker-mobile-caobility-new.jpg" alt-text="People picker control capability mobile":::

# [Desktop](#tab/Sampledesktop)

The People Picker control on web or desktop is launched in a modal window on top of your web app.

> * To add a user to the web app, select the people option and start searching the user based on name or email address.

Author: Updated content with numbered list.
